
2025-08-07 22:08

Status:

Tags: [[LLMs(Large language models)]] [[Google]] 




# Google's genie 3(By google Deepmind)

>- Create controllable 3d worlds from text prompts
>- It can understand reality well enough to generate it
>- instead of "what is seen" it is capable of generating "what could be seen" if it could see
>- Simulating natural world
>- Genie 3’s consistency is an emergent capability. Other methods such as NeRFs and Gaussian Splatting also allow consistent navigable 3D environments, but depend on the provision of an explicit 3D representation. By contrast, worlds generated by Genie 3 are far more dynamic and rich because they’re created frame by frame based on the world description and actions by the user.
>- 720p with 24fps
>- the consistency of the created worlds is an emergent property(Meaning the model magically got better with more data)

### Promptable world events

In addition to navigational inputs, Genie 3 also enables a more expressive form of text-based interaction, which is referred to as _promptable world events_.

Promptable world events make it possible to change the generated world, like altering weather conditions or introducing new objects and characters, enhancing the experience from navigation controls.

This ability also increases the breadth of counterfactual, or “what if” scenarios, that can be used by agents learning from experience to handle unexpected situations.

**Choose a world setting. Then, pick an event, and see Genie 3 create it.**

## Limitations

While Genie 3 pushes the boundaries of what world models can accomplish, it's important to acknowledge its current limitations:

- **Limited action space**. Although promptable world events allow for a wide range of environmental interventions, they are not necessarily performed by the agent itself. The range of actions agents can perform directly is currently constrained.
- **Interaction and simulation of other agents**. Accurately modeling complex interactions between multiple independent agents in shared environments is still an ongoing research challenge.
- **Accurate representation of real-world locations**. Genie 3 is currently unable to simulate real-world locations with perfect geographic accuracy.
- **Text rendering.** Clear and legible text is often only generated when provided in the input world description.
- **Limited interaction duration.** The model can currently support a few minutes of continuous interaction, rather than extended hours.




# References
[[Fireship]] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0XvOOi6g5Ok